In this demo, I'll show you how to build your own Docker image.
If you already followed my other training, learn devops continuously deliver better software,
then this will be very familiar and you can actually skip this lecture.
In this demo, I'm going to use my "ubuntu-xenial" Vagrant box.
If you haven't set up one yet, have a look at the demo where I explain, how to set up a cluster on AWS.
The first demo explains how to set up a Vagrant box with Linux.
Like I said, you can also just download Docker for Windows, or Docker for Mac,
and then execute the commands in a terminal, or using CMD, or power shell on Windows.
I'm going to use Linux.
You can get exactly the same box, so you should be able to exactly replicate this labs using this Vagrant box
First thing I'm going to do is, I am going to install Docker.
I can do that using, "apt-get install", so I am just going to, "apt-get install docker.io"
which is going to install docker for me. This is going to install the latest version that is bundled with ubuntu.
If you want the really, really, latest version, then you will have to get the latest version from their website.
And their website also has instructions how to install the latest one.
This one is bundled with ubuntu version 1.12
Definitely good enough to do the lab.
I'm also going to install, "apt-get install git", which in our case it is installed.
Why do I need git?
I'm going to get cloned my git repository, "docker-demo". You can also just go to this URL and get it downloaded as a zip file.
So you don't really need git, it just easy to clone it straight here.
And then, we have the directory "docker-demo". So, in this directory we have, the "index.js", "package.json", and the "Dockerfile" as I explained.
You also have a "docker-compose.yml", "index-db.js", we will have to have a look at that.
Those I used in some of my other courses.
I just have one "docker-demo" repository that we always will use.
"docker build" is going to use the docker file.
Let's have a look at this "Dockerfile", looks exactly the same.
So, now we can execute the docker build.
You can execute the "docker build" as root, with "sudo". We can do a, "sudo docker build" at the current directory,
or you can make sure that the user ubuntu has access to this docker group, because then user ubuntu, our user,
will always be able to execute dock.
And you need to do this as root.
Once you do this, you actually need to log out, and log in, so I am going to exit here.
Do, a "vagrant ssh" again. We go to, "docker-demo", now I can do the "docker build" of this "docker-demo".
I will just paused the video for a second, this is what you should get.
So, Docker has successfully built this container, and we will go back to my "docker build"
and you can see first it pulled the node image, then it set the working directory to "/app".
And added the path "/app", runs "npm install", so this gets all the dependencies for node, it installs it, it's quite a lot,
and then, it says, "npm info ok". It exposes port 3000.
Makes sure that, when you start a container, it uses "npm start".
So, now we have this container, and you could already this container.
You can use "docker run -p" port "3000", it is the port that this app is running on. You want to expose it as port "3000" on the whole system.
This "ubuntu-xenial" is the whole system.
And, this "-t" runs a Docker image with this ID. You can also specify the "i" flag for interactive mode,
so that if you press "control+c", it'll actually get killed, and you don't have to kill it manually afterwords.
It is going to run this.
Let's open on a window,
and I am just going to do, "curl localhost:3000", and then we have the "Hello World!".
So, this is the "Hello World" of the index.js.
So, that's it.
Next I'm going to explain to you how to get this image online on DockerHub, Kubernetes can download this image, so that we can run this image on our cluster.